[new opmath] New opmath starting page (#5483)
PennyLaneAI/pennylane: doc/introduction/new_opmath.rst

.. _new_opmath:

New opmath
==========

Version ``0.36`` of PennyLane updated the default ``Operator`` subclasses, changing the operator arithmetic.
An end-user should not notice any (breaking) changes.
This pages should help developers with troubleshooting and guide in the process of legacy support while both systems are supported.

.. note::

    If you are looking for a quick fix, jump to the :ref:`Troubleshooting` section!

    After visiting the :ref:`Troubleshooting` section, if you are still stuck then you can:

    - Post on the PennyLane `discussion forum <https://discuss.pennylane.ai>`_.

    - If you suspect that your issue is due to a bug in PennyLane itself, please open a
      `bug report <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/issues/new?labels=bug+%3Abug%3A&template=bug_report.yml&title=[BUG]>`_
      on the PennyLane GitHub page.

.. note::

    The old return system has been completely removed from PennyLane as of version 0.33.0, along with the

>     ``enable_return()`` and ``disable_return()`` toggle functions.

Author: note to self: remove

Summary of the update
---------------------

The opt-in feature ``qml.operation.enable_new_opmath()`` is now the default. You can still opt-out via
``qml.operation.disable_new_opmath()``.

The changes between the old and new system mainly concern Python operators ``+ - * / @``,
that now create the following ``Operator`` subclass instances.

> +----------------------------------+----------------------+---------------------------+

Author: any way to spice this up, looks a bit bland? 
![image](https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/assets/43949391/2c040292-4a4c-4209-bf58-c6c6db416f2c)

    * Check explicit use of ``op.obs`` attribute, where ``op`` is some operator. This is how the terms of a tensor product is accessed in :class:`~Tensor` instances. Use ``op.operands`` instead.

      .. code-block:: python

          # new opmath enabled (default)
          op = X(0) @ X(1)
          assert op.operands == (X(0), X(1))

          with qml.operation.disable_new_opmath_cm():
              # context manager that disables new opmath temporarilly
              op = X(0) @ X(1)
              assert op.obs == [X(0), X(1)]
    
    * Check explicit use of ``qml.ops.Hamiltonian``. In that case, simply change to ``qml.Hamiltonian``.

      >>> op = qml.ops.Hamiltonian([0.5, 0.5], [X(0) @ X(1), X(1) @ X(2)])
      ValueError: Could not create circuits. Some or all observables are not valid.
      >>> op = qml.Hamiltonian([0.5, 0.5], [X(0) @ X(1), X(1) @ X(2)])
      >>> isinstance(op, qml.ops.LinearCombination)
      True
    
    * Check if you are explicitly enabling and disabling new opmath somewhere in your script. Mixing both systems is not supported.

>     If for some unexpected reason your script still breaks, please see the :ref:`I am unsure what to do <unsure>` section below.

Author: note to self: link broken

.. details::
    :title: I want to contribute to PennyLane
    :href: PL-developer

    If you want to contribute a new feature to PennyLane or update an existing one, you likely also need to update the tests.
    Please refrain from explicitly using ``qml.operation.disable_new_opmath()`` and ``qml.operation.enable_new_opmath()`` anywhere in tests and code as that globally

>     changes the status of new opmath and thereby can affect other parts of your code or other tests.

Author: note to self: put into note environment

.. _new_opmath:

New opmath

> ==========

Author: I like that ✅

Version ``0.36`` of PennyLane updated the default ``Operator`` subclasses, changing the operator arithmetic.
An end-user should not notice any (breaking) changes.
This page should help developers with troubleshooting and provide instructions for legacy support while both systems are supported.

.. note::

    If you are looking for a quick fix, jump to the :ref:`Troubleshooting` section!

    After visiting the :ref:`Troubleshooting` section, if you are still stuck then you can:

    - Post on the PennyLane `discussion forum <https://discuss.pennylane.ai>`_.

    - If you suspect that your issue is due to a bug in PennyLane itself, please open a
      `bug report <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/issues/new?labels=bug+%3Abug%3A&template=bug_report.yml&title=[BUG]>`_
      on the PennyLane GitHub page.

Summary of the update

> ---------------------

Author: That sounds good! I added basically a slightly updated version of that great changelog as the quick summary, followed by a technical details section

    | sums                                       | ``ops.Hamiltonian``  | ``ops.Sum``               |
    | ``X(0) + X(1)``                            |                      |                           |
    +--------------------------------------------+----------------------+---------------------------+
    | scalar products                            | ``ops.Hamiltonian``  | ``ops.SProd``             |
    | ``1.5 * X(1)``                             |                      |                           |
    +--------------------------------------------+----------------------+---------------------------+
    | ``qml.dot(coeffs,ops)``                    | ``ops.Sum``          | ``ops.Sum``               |
    +--------------------------------------------+----------------------+---------------------------+
    | ``qml.Hamiltonian(coeffs, ops)``           | ``ops.Hamiltonian``  | ``ops.LinearCombination`` |
    +--------------------------------------------+----------------------+---------------------------+
    | ``qml.ops.LinearCombination(coeffs, ops)`` | n/a                  | ``ops.LinearCombination`` |

>     +--------------------------------------------+----------------------+---------------------------+

Reviewer: Nice!

              op = X(0) @ X(1)
              assert op.obs == [X(0), X(1)]
    
    * Check explicit use of ``qml.ops.Hamiltonian``. In that case, simply change to ``qml.Hamiltonian``.

      >>> op = qml.ops.Hamiltonian([0.5, 0.5], [X(0) @ X(1), X(1) @ X(2)])
      ValueError: Could not create circuits. Some or all observables are not valid.
      >>> op = qml.Hamiltonian([0.5, 0.5], [X(0) @ X(1), X(1) @ X(2)])
      >>> isinstance(op, qml.ops.LinearCombination)
      True
    
    * Check if you are explicitly enabling and disabling new opmath somewhere in your script. Mixing both systems is not supported.

    If for some unexpected reason your script still breaks, please post on the PennyLane `discussion forum <https://discuss.pennylane.ai>`_ or open a
    `bug report <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/issues/new?labels=bug+%3Abug%3A&template=bug_report.yml&title=[BUG]>`_
    on the PennyLane GitHub page.

.. details::
    :title: Sharp bits about the qml.Hamiltonian dispatch
    :href: sharp-bits-hamiltonian

    One of the reasons that :class:`~ops.LinearCombination` exists is that the old Hamiltonian class is not compatible with new opmath tensor products.

>     We can try to instantiate a old ``qml.ops.Hamiltonian`` class with a ``X(0) @ X(1)`` tensor product, which returns a :class:`~Prod` instance with opmath enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    We can try to instantiate an old ``qml.ops.Hamiltonian`` class with a ``X(0) @ X(1)`` tensor product, which returns a :class:`~Prod` instance with opmath enabled.
```

    >>> qml.operation.active_new_opmath() # confirm opmath is active (by default)
    True
    >>> qml.ops.Hamiltonian([0.5], [X(0) @ X(1)])
    PennyLaneDeprecationWarning: Using 'qml.ops.Hamiltonian' with new operator arithmetic is deprecated. Instead, use 'qml.Hamiltonian', or use 'qml.operation.disable_new_opmath()' to continue to access the legacy functionality. See https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/development/deprecations.html for more details.

>     ValueError: Could not create circuits. Some or all observables are not valid.

Reviewer: This feels like not the sort of error I was expecting :thinking: Where is the circuit?

Author: I think this is just an unfortunate phrasing in the `Hamiltonian` class in https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/blob/master/pennylane/ops/qubit/hamiltonian.py#L208 Would be an easy fix on the PennyLane side but I am afraid this would warrant also changes to multiple dependency unit tests

* The underlying system for performing arithmetic with operators has been changed. Arithmetic can be carried out using
  standard dunder methods like ``+``, ``*`` and ``@`` or via arithmetic functions located in :mod:`~.op_math`.

* You can now easily access Pauli operators via ``I``, ``X``, ``Y``, and ``Z``.

  >>> from pennylane import I, X, Y, Z
  >>> X(0)
  X(0)

  The original long-form names :class:`~.Identity`, :class:`~.PauliX`, :class:`~.PauliY`, and :class:`~.PauliZ` remain available, but
  use of the short-form names is now recommended.

* Operators in PennyLane can have a backend Pauli representation, which can be used to perform faster operator arithmetic. Now, the Pauli
  representation will be automatically used for calculations when available.

  The Pauli representation can be optionally accessed via ``op.pauli_rep``:

  >>> op = X(0) + Y(0)
  >>> op.pauli_rep
  1.0 * X(0)
  + 1.0 * Y(0)

* Extensive improvements have been made to the string representations of PennyLane operators,
  making them shorter and possible to copy-paste as valid PennyLane code.

  >>> 0.5 * X(0)
  0.5 * X(0)
  >>> 0.5 * (X(0) + Y(1))

>   0.5 * (X(0) + Y(1))

Author: I expanded on this a bit ✅

    >>> op
    (
        0.5 * X(0)
      + 0.5 * Y(0)
      + -1 * 1.5 * X(0)
      + -1 * 0.5 * Y(0)
    )

    We are often interested in obtaining a list of coefficients and `pure` operators.
    We can do so by using the ``op.terms()`` method.

    >>> op = 0.5 * (X(0) @ X(1) + Y(0) @ Y(1) + 2 * Z(0) @ Z(1)) - 1.5 * I() + 0.5 * I()
    >>> op.terms()
    ([0.5, 0.5, 1.0, -1.0], [X(1) @ X(0), Y(1) @ Y(0), Z(1) @ Z(0), I()])

    As seen by this example, this method already takes care of arithmetic simplifications.

    qml.Hamiltonian
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    The legacy classes :class:`~operation.Tensor` and :class:`~ops.Hamiltonian` will soon be deprecated.
    :class:`~ops.LinearCombination` offers the same API as :class:`~ops.Hamiltonian` but works well with new opmath classes.

    Depending on whether or not new opmath is active, ``qml.Hamiltonian`` will return either of the two classes.

    >>> import pennylane as qml
    >>> from pennylane import X
    >>> qml.operation.active_new_opmath()
    True
    >>> H = qml.Hamiltonian([0.5, 0.5], [X(0), X(1)])
    >>> type(H)
    pennylane.ops.op_math.linear_combination.LinearCombination

>     >>> qml.operation.disable_new_opmath_()

Reviewer 2: probably a typo: 
```suggestion
    >>> qml.operation.disable_new_opmath()
```

    >>> qml.operation.active_new_opmath()
    False
    >>> H = qml.Hamiltonian([0.5, 0.5], [X(0), X(1)])
    >>> type(H)
    pennylane.ops.qubit.hamiltonian.Hamiltonian

    Both classes offer the same API and functionality, so a user does not have to worry about those implementation details.

.. _Troubleshooting_opmath:

Troubleshooting
---------------

You may experience issues with PennyLane's updated operator arithmetic in version ``v0.36`` and above if you have existing code that works with an earlier version of PennyLane.
To help identify a fix, select the option below that describes your situation.

.. details::
    :title: My old PennyLane script does not run anymore
    :href: old-script-broken

    A quick-and-dirty fix for this issue is to deactivate new opmath at the beginning of the script via ``qml.operation.disable_new_opmath()``.
    We recommend to do the following checks instead

>     * Check explicit use of the legacy :class:`~Tensor` class. If you find it in your script it can just be changed from ``Tensor(*terms)`` to ``qml.prod(*terms)`` with the same call signature.

Reviewer 3: no code example here? Just wondering 😁

Author: yep :)

>     * Check explicit use of ``op.obs`` attribute, where ``op`` is some operator. This is how the terms of a tensor product is accessed in :class:`~Tensor` instances. Use ``op.operands`` instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * Check explicit use of the ``op.obs`` attribute, where ``op`` is some operator. This is how the terms of a tensor product are accessed in :class:`~Tensor` instances. Use ``op.operands`` instead.

```

              op = X(0) @ X(1)
              assert op.obs == [X(0), X(1)]
    
    * Check explicit use of ``qml.ops.Hamiltonian``. In that case, simply change to ``qml.Hamiltonian``.

      >>> op = qml.ops.Hamiltonian([0.5, 0.5], [X(0) @ X(1), X(1) @ X(2)])
      ValueError: Could not create circuits. Some or all observables are not valid.
      >>> op = qml.Hamiltonian([0.5, 0.5], [X(0) @ X(1), X(1) @ X(2)])
      >>> isinstance(op, qml.ops.LinearCombination)
      True
    
    * Check if you are explicitly enabling and disabling new opmath somewhere in your script. Mixing both systems is not supported.

    If for some unexpected reason your script still breaks, please post on the PennyLane `discussion forum <https://discuss.pennylane.ai>`_ or open a
    `bug report <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/issues/new?labels=bug+%3Abug%3A&template=bug_report.yml&title=[BUG]>`_
    on the PennyLane GitHub page.

.. details::
    :title: Sharp bits about the qml.Hamiltonian dispatch
    :href: sharp-bits-hamiltonian

    One of the reasons that :class:`~ops.LinearCombination` exists is that the old Hamiltonian class is not compatible with new opmath tensor products.

>     We can try to instantiate an old ``qml.ops.Hamiltonian`` class with a ``X(0) @ X(1)`` tensor product, which returns a :class:`~Prod` instance with opmath enabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    We can try to instantiate an old ``qml.ops.Hamiltonian`` class with a ``X(0) @ X(1)`` tensor product, which returns a :class:`~Prod` instance with new opmath enabled.

```

    >>> qml.operation.active_new_opmath() # confirm opmath is active (by default)
    True
    >>> qml.ops.Hamiltonian([0.5], [X(0) @ X(1)])
    PennyLaneDeprecationWarning: Using 'qml.ops.Hamiltonian' with new operator arithmetic is deprecated. Instead, use 'qml.Hamiltonian', or use 'qml.operation.disable_new_opmath()' to continue to access the legacy functionality. See https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/development/deprecations.html for more details.
    ValueError: Could not create circuits. Some or all observables are not valid.

    However, using ``qml.Hamiltonian`` works as expected.

    >>> qml.Hamiltonian([0.5], [X(0) @ X(1)])
    0.5 * (X(0) @ X(1))

>     The API of LinearCombination is identical to that of Hamiltonian. We can group observables or simplify upon initialization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The API of ``LinearCombination`` is identical to that of ``Hamiltonian``. We can group observables or simplify upon initialization.

```

    >>> H1 = qml.Hamiltonian([0.5, 0.5, 0.5], [X(0) @ X(1), X(0), Y(0)], grouping_type="qwc", simplify=True)
    >>> H2 = qml.ops.LinearCombination([0.5, 0.5, 0.5], [X(0) @ X(1), X(0), Y(0)], grouping_type="qwc", simplify=True)
    >>> H1 == H2
    True

    One small difference is that ``ham.simplify()`` no longer alters the instance in-place. In either case (legacy/new opmath), the following works.

    >>> H1 = qml.Hamiltonian([0.5, 0.5], [X(0) @ X(1), X(0) @ X(1)])
    >>> H1 = H1.simplify() # work for new and legacy opmath

.. details::
    :title: I want to contribute to PennyLane and need to provide legacy support in tests
    :href: PL-developer

    If you want to contribute a new feature to PennyLane or update an existing one, you likely also need to update the tests.

    .. note::
        Please refrain from explicitly using ``qml.operation.disable_new_opmath()`` and ``qml.operation.enable_new_opmath()`` anywhere in tests as that globally
        changes the status of new opmath and thereby can affect other tests.

>         .. code-block:: python3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        .. code-block:: python3

```

            def test_some_legacy_opmath_behavior():
                qml.operation.disable_new_opmath() # dont do this
                # testing some legacy behavior things

            def test_some_new_opmath_behavior():
                assert qml.operation.active_new_opmath()
                # will fail because the previous test globally disabled new opmath

        Instead, please use the fixtures below, or the context managers ``qml.operation.disable_new_opmath_cm()`` and ``qml.operation.enable_new_opmath_cm()``.

        >>> with qml.operation.disable_new_opmath_cm():
        ...     op = qml.Hamiltonian([0.5], [X(0) @ X(1)])
        >>> assert isinstance(op, qml.ops.Hamiltonian)

>     Our continuous integration (CI) test suite is running all tests with the default of new opmath being enabled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Our continuous integration (CI) test suite is running all tests with the new opmath enabled by default.

```

>     We also periodically run the CI test suite with new opmath disabled, as we support both new and legacy systems for some limited time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    We also periodically run the CI test suite with new opmath disabled, as we support both the new and legacy systems for a limited time.

```

    In case a test needs to be adopted for either case, you can use the following fixtures.

>     * Use ``@pytest.mark.usefixtures("use_legacy_opmath")`` to test functionality that is explicitly only supported by legacy opmath, e.g. for backward compatibility.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * Use ``@pytest.mark.usefixtures("use_legacy_opmath")`` to test functionality that is explicitly only supported by legacy opmath (e.g., for backward compatibility).

```

>       .. code-block:: python3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      .. code-block:: python3

```

        @pytest.mark.usefixtures("use_legacy_opmath")
        def test_qml_hamiltonian_legacy_opmath():
            assert qml.Hamiltonian == qml.ops.Hamiltonian

        def test_qml_hamiltonian()
            assert qml.Hamiltonian == qml.ops.LinearCombination

    * Use ``@pytest.mark.usefixtures("use_new_opmath")`` to test functionality that `only` works with new opmath. That is because for the intermittent period 
      of supporting both systems, we periodically run the test suite with new opmath disabled.

>       .. code-block:: python3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      .. code-block:: python3

```

        @pytest.mark.usefixtures("use_new_opmath")
        def test_qml_hamiltonian_new_opmath():
            assert qml.Hamiltonian == qml.ops.LinearCombination
    
    * Use ``@pytest.mark.usefixtures("use_legacy_and_new_opmath")`` if you want to test support for both systems in one single test. You can use ``qml.operation.active_new_opmath``
      inside the test to account for minor differences between both systems.

>       .. code-block:: python3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      .. code-block:: python3

```

        @pytest.mark.usefixtures("use_legacy_and_new_opmath")
        def test_qml_hamiltonian_new_opmath():
            if qml.operation.active_new_opmath():
                assert qml.Hamiltonian == qml.ops.LinearCombination
            
            if not qml.operation.active_new_opmath():
                assert qml.Hamiltonian == qml.ops.Hamiltonian
    

>     One sharp bit about testing is that ``pytest`` runs collection and test execution separately. That means that instances generated outside the test, e.g. for parametrization, have been created

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    One sharp bit about testing is that ``pytest`` runs collection and test execution separately. That means that instances generated outside the test, e.g., for parametrization, have been created

```

    using the respective system. So you may need to also put that creation in the appropriate context manager.

>     .. code-block:: python3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .. code-block:: python3

```

        # in some test file
        with qml.operation.disable_new_opmath():
            legacy_ham_example = qml.Hamiltonian(coeffs, ops) # creates a Hamiltonian instance

        @pytest.mark.usefixtures("use_legacy_opmath")
        @pytest.marl.parametrize("ham", [legacy_ham_example])
        def test_qml_hamiltonian_legacy_opmath(ham):
            assert isinstance(ham, qml.Hamiltonian) # True
            assert isinstance(ham, qml.ops.Hamiltonian) # True

    Alternatively, you can convert them back to legacy Hamiltonian instances using ``qml.operation.convert_to_legacy_H()``. 

>     .. code-block:: python3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .. code-block:: python3

```

    >>> qml.operation.enable_new_opmath() # default soon
    >>> op = 0.5 * (X(0) @ X(1)) + 0.5 * (Y(0) @ Y(1))
    >>> type(op)
    pennylane.ops.op_math.sum.Sum

    >>> op.operands
    (0.5 * (X(0) @ X(1)), 0.5 * (Y(0) @ Y(1)))

    >>> type(op.operands[0]), type(op.operands[1])
    (pennylane.ops.op_math.sprod.SProd, pennylane.ops.op_math.sprod.SProd)

    >>> op.operands[0].scalar, op.operands[0].base, type(op.operands[0].base)
    (0.5, X(0) @ X(1), pennylane.ops.op_math.prod.Prod)

    We could construct an equivalent operator with a different nesting structure.

    >>> op = (0.5 * X(0)) @ X(1) + (0.5 * Y(0)) @ Y(1)
    >>> op.operands
    ((0.5 * X(0)) @ X(1), (0.5 * Y(0)) @ Y(1))

    >>> type(op.operands[0]), type(op.operands[1])
    (pennylane.ops.op_math.prod.Prod, pennylane.ops.op_math.prod.Prod)

    >>> op.operands[0].operands
    (0.5 * X(0), X(1))

    >>> type(op.operands[0].operands[0]), type(op.operands[0].operands[1])
    (pennylane.ops.op_math.sprod.SProd,
     pennylane.ops.qubit.non_parametric_ops.PauliX)
    
    There is yet another way to construct the same, equivalent, operator.

>     We can bring all of them to the same format by using ``op.simplify()`` which brings the operator down to 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    We can bring all of them to the same format by using ``op.simplify()``, which brings the operator down to 

```

>     the form :math:`\sum_i c_i \hat{O}_i` where :math:`c_i` is a scalar coefficient and :math:`\hat{O}_i` a pure operator or tensor product of operators.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    the form :math:`\sum_i c_i \hat{O}_i`, where :math:`c_i` is a scalar coefficient and :math:`\hat{O}_i` is a pure operator or tensor product of operators.

```

    >>> op1 = 0.5 * (X(0) @ X(1)) + 0.5 * (Y(0) @ Y(1))
    >>> op2 = (0.5 * X(0)) @ X(1) + (0.5 * Y(0)) @ Y(1)
    >>> op3 = 0.5 * (X(0) @ X(1) + Y(0) @ Y(1))
    >>> qml.equal(op1, op2), qml.equal(op2, op3), qml.equal(op3, op1)
    (True, False, False)

    >>> op1 = op1.simplify()
    >>> op2 = op2.simplify()
    >>> op3 = op3.simplify()
    >>> qml.equal(op1, op2), qml.equal(op2, op3), qml.equal(op3, op1)
    (True, True, True)

    >>> op1, op2, op3
    (0.5 * (X(1) @ X(0)) + 0.5 * (Y(1) @ Y(0)),
     0.5 * (X(1) @ X(0)) + 0.5 * (Y(1) @ Y(0)),
     0.5 * (X(1) @ X(0)) + 0.5 * (Y(1) @ Y(0)))
    

>     We can also obtain those scalar coefficients and tensor product operators via the op.terms() method.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    We can also obtain those scalar coefficients and tensor product operators via the ``op.terms()`` method.

```

.. note::

    If you are looking for a quick fix, jump to the :ref:`Troubleshooting_opmath` section!

    After visiting the :ref:`Troubleshooting_opmath` section, if you are still stuck then you can:

    - Post on the PennyLane `discussion forum <https://discuss.pennylane.ai>`_.

    - If you suspect that your issue is due to a bug in PennyLane itself, please open a
      `bug report <https://github.com/PennyLaneAI/pennylane/issues/new?labels=bug+%3Abug%3A&template=bug_report.yml&title=[BUG]>`_
      on the PennyLane GitHub page.

Summary of the update
---------------------

.. rst-class:: admonition tip

    The opt-in feature ``qml.operation.enable_new_opmath()`` is now the default. Ideally, your code should not break.
    If it still does, it likely only requires some minor changes. For that, see the :ref:`Troubleshooting_opmath` section.
    You can still opt-out and run legacy code via ``qml.operation.disable_new_opmath()``.

* The underlying system for performing arithmetic with operators has been changed. Arithmetic can be carried out using
  standard Python operations like ``+``, ``*`` and ``@`` or via arithmetic functions located in :mod:`~.op_math`.

> * You can now easily access Pauli operators via :class:`~.I`, :class:`~.X`, :class:`~.Y`, and :class:`~.Z`.

Author: these links also dont work

Reviewer: Is it because of how we are aliasing `X = PauliX`? Maybe `:class:` is not the right name here. Also, I wouldn't hold up merging the PR for this.

Reviewer 3: don't work for me either, but agree with Tom that this shouldn't hold it up.

Reviewer 3: @Qottmann it might honestly be a PR preview thing, not sure though. Let's see when this gets merged, and if there's still an issue we can just make a new PR with the fixes. Happy to handle that myself :)

Author: That would be awesome, thanks!

representation will be automatically used for calculations when available.

The Pauli representation can be optionally accessed via ``op.pauli_rep``:

>>> op = X(0) + Y(0)
>>> op.pauli_rep
1.0 * X(0)
+ 1.0 * Y(0)

Extensive improvements have been made to the string representations of PennyLane operators,
making them shorter and possible to copy-paste as valid PennyLane code.

>>> 0.5 * X(0)
0.5 * X(0)
>>> 0.5 * (X(0) + Y(1))
0.5 * (X(0) + Y(1))

Sums with many terms are broken up into multiple lines, but can still be copied back as valid
code:

>>> 0.5 * (X(0) @ X(1)) + 0.7 * (X(1) @ X(2)) + 0.8 * (X(2) @ X(3))
(
    0.5 * (X(0) @ X(1))
  + 0.7 * (X(1) @ X(2))
  + 0.8 * (X(2) @ X(3))
)

Linear combinations of operators and operator multiplication via :class:`~Sum` and :class:`~Prod`, respectively,
have been updated to reach feature parity with :class:`~Hamiltonian` and :class:`~Tensor`, respectively.
This should minimize the effort to port over any existing code.

Updates include support for grouping via the `pauli` module:

>>> obs = [X(0) @ Y(1), Z(0), Y(0) @ Z(1), Y(1)]
>>> qml.pauli.group_observables(obs)

> [[Y(0) @ Z(1)], [X(0) @ Y(1), Y(1)], [Z(0)]]

Author: Do you mean just the last bit about grouping or the whole block? I removed the bit about grouping ✅ let me know if you also want the other bit removed!

    operator also has a valid ``pauli_rep`` in terms of a :class:`~.pennylane.pauli.PauliSentence` instance. This is often handy for fast
    arithmetic processing.

    >>> op.pauli_rep
    1.0 * X(0)
    + 1.0 * X(1)
    + 1.0 * X(2)

    Further, composite operators can be simplified using :func:`~.pennylane.simplify` or the ``op.simplify()`` method.

    >>> op = 0.5 * X(0) + 0.5 * Y(0) - 1.5 * X(0) - 0.5 * Y(0) # no simplification by default
    >>> op.simplify()
    -1.0 * X(0)
    >>> qml.simplify(op)
    -1.0 * X(0)

    Note that the simplification never happens in-place, such that the original operator is left unaltered.

    >>> op
    (
        0.5 * X(0)
      + 0.5 * Y(0)
      + -1 * 1.5 * X(0)
      + -1 * 0.5 * Y(0)
    )

    We are often interested in obtaining a list of coefficients and `pure` operators.
    We can do so by using the ``op.terms()`` method.

    >>> op = 0.5 * (X(0) @ X(1) + Y(0) @ Y(1) + 2 * Z(0) @ Z(1)) - 1.5 * I() + 0.5 * I()
    >>> op.terms()
    ([0.5, 0.5, 1.0, -1.0], [X(1) @ X(0), Y(1) @ Y(0), Z(1) @ Z(0), I()])

    As seen by this example, this method already takes care of arithmetic simplifications.

    **qml.Hamiltonian**

>     The legacy classes :class:`~.pennylane.operation.Tensor` and :class:`~.pennylane.ops.Hamiltonian` will soon be deprecated.

Reviewer: Do `~.Tensor` and `~.Hamiltonian` work?

>     The legacy classes :class:`~.pennylane.operation.Tensor` and :class:`~.pennylane.ops.Hamiltonian` will soon be deprecated.

Author: Tried `~.Hamiltonian` still doesnt work, I would at this point just leave it as is

As seen by this example, this method already takes care of arithmetic simplifications.

qml.Hamiltonian
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The legacy classes :class:`~operation.Tensor` and :class:`~ops.Hamiltonian` will soon be deprecated.
:class:`~ops.LinearCombination` offers the same API as :class:`~ops.Hamiltonian` but works well with new opmath classes.

Depending on whether or not new opmath is active, ``qml.Hamiltonian`` will return either of the two classes.

>>> import pennylane as qml
>>> from pennylane import X
>>> qml.operation.active_new_opmath()
True
>>> H = qml.Hamiltonian([0.5, 0.5], [X(0), X(1)])
>>> type(H)
pennylane.ops.op_math.linear_combination.LinearCombination

>>> qml.operation.disable_new_opmath_()
>>> qml.operation.active_new_opmath()
False
>>> H = qml.Hamiltonian([0.5, 0.5], [X(0), X(1)])
>>> type(H)
pennylane.ops.qubit.hamiltonian.Hamiltonian

Both classes offer the same API and functionality, so a user does not have to worry about those implementation details.

.. _Troubleshooting:

Troubleshooting
---------------

If you are a developer or power-user that explicitly uses ``qml.operation.Tensor`` or ``qml.ops.Hamiltonian``, you

> may run into one of the following common issues.

Reviewer: Maybe we could phrase it more generally like we did for QNode returns? https://docs.pennylane.ai/en/stable/introduction/returns.html#troubleshooting

    ValueError: Could not create circuits. Some or all observables are not valid.

    However, using ``qml.Hamiltonian`` works as expected.

    >>> qml.Hamiltonian([0.5], [X(0) @ X(1)])
    0.5 * (X(0) @ X(1))

    The API of LinearCombination is identical to that of Hamiltonian. We can group observables or simplify upon initialization.

    >>> H1 = qml.Hamiltonian([0.5, 0.5, 0.5], [X(0) @ X(1), X(0), Y(0)], grouping_type="qwc", simplify=True)
    >>> H2 = qml.ops.LinearCombination([0.5, 0.5, 0.5], [X(0) @ X(1), X(0), Y(0)], grouping_type="qwc", simplify=True)
    >>> H1 == H2
    True

    One small difference is that ``ham.simplify()`` no longer alters the instance in-place. In either case (legacy/new opmath), the following works.

    >>> H1 = qml.Hamiltonian([0.5, 0.5], [X(0) @ X(1), X(0) @ X(1)])
    >>> H1 = H1.simplify() # work for new and legacy opmath

.. details::
    :title: My old PennyLane script does not run anymore

>     :href: old-script-broken

Reviewer: Could maybe have this one first?
